So now did we learn more about attributes and how we can listen to changes.
Let me come back to our general logic here.
In the web component for one I noticed we still have a little redundant code in there.
Here where I append this tooltip type I can to my shadow root.
This is simply not required anymore.
We have it here in the template so it is a rendered by default.
So I can remove that and we'll still have it there.
But this was not the main part I wanted to focus on.
Instead what we also can do we can clean up our event listeners we got here.
Right now we add these event listeners but we never clean them up.
That's always a good idea to clean up your stuff when this component should ever be removed from the
dorm.
And I can show you how it can be removed in a second.
And for this we have a number lifecycle.
Hope you learned about earlier.
We got DIA disconnect that callback and this will be executed when the element is removed from the dorm.
No let me simply output disconnect that here for now before we add any other logic.
Let's go back to our page and reload.
And of course we again could have some javascript code which simply selects this element and removes
it just as we by the way also remove our tool the container here you can remove any node with remove
child.
You just have to select the parent all of it and then get rid of it.
So we could get access to the paragraph and removed this child from it or here to simulated in an even
easier way in the def tools.
I can simply select it and hit the delete or backspace key and it's gone and the console we see disconnected
because this gets executed when this component gets removed from the dawn.
And of course for every component separately.
So that second tooltip if I remove dead we see disconnected again.
Now it was called twice or printed twice because it was printed for the two separate elements because
they are treated totally independent from each other.
Now the disconnected callback is a great place for cleanup work.
Cancel any repeat requests you might be doing maybe send a log message to your own statistics server
or in our case clean up the event listeners the mouse enter and mouse leave listeners.
Now we can clean up these listeners by first of all storing the tooltip.
I can reference here not in a constant because concepts like variables are only accessible in the scope.
So in the function this case and the method where you define them I want to access it from down there
though.
So I have to turn it into a class property and we do that by simply storing it in one.
And for that simply to make it clear that we have such a class property all defined one here underscore
tooltip I can to make sure it is seen as a private property of this clause.
It's on initialized here and we wouldn't have to define it here first by the way.
I just want to have a definition here so that when we look at this component we quickly see the properties
we're using but with a defined I can now use it and it can use it down there and store my span in the
tooltip I can property we just initialized and replace all tooltip I can references here with references
to my tooltip icon property class property and now we can go to the disconnected call back.
And there I can add remove listener remove event listener.
Call this method and then want to remove my mouse enter listener.
Let's at this year and the way remove event listener works is that we then also have to defined the
method which was connected.
So for mouse entered as was show tooltip like this where we want to remove that and we want to do the
same for mouse leaf and hide tooltip.
So I will just duplicate this mouse.
Leave this hide tooltip and with that if I save all that and I go back and reload if I select my component
and remove it.
Well we don't see anything year but now we do our cleanup work.
We take advantage of the disconnected callback to clean up already bent listeners here.
Always a good idea.
But again you could do any cleanup work or any work in general you have in that method here.
In that lifecycle look one important note here at this point though if you watch closely you see what
I'm removing.
Here are the event listeners for miles and trim Miles leave.
But I'm pointing at my show tooltip and height tooltip methods like this.
Now when we add event listeners I actually use bind with this to make sure that the this keyword ends
all of these methods.
Well it works correctly basically.
Now when you use bind on a method or on a function it generates a new function or method.
So actually the method I'm removing here as a listener is not exactly the same function object as I
used to attach it.
So technically these remove event listeners have no effect here.
Well they do have an effect but they tried to remove a method as a listener which like this was never
attached.
Now the good thing is when you remove the element from the Dom and that is true for custom elements
as well.
Any event listeners are automatically removed by the browser so we won't introduce a memory leak here.
That is something you also learned early in the course.
That is why I will leave this code here simply to show you dead.
You could use disconnected callback for cleanup work but this specific cleanup work here is redundant
and actually won't have the intended effect.
But if you had over a cleanup work here like cancelling a H to the p request or anything like that then
this would be your method and that's why I will leave the code here.